move him around, see him move, we let him run in a
circle around us. And I slapped him on the butt just
as he came around one time. He kicked me on the leg. I
was incapacitated for three months with that one
call. That really ensured my not calling him
anymore. But it is one of those things that happens
to you. Now, did you, within small animal, you're
still doing a general practice. Is there any kind
of, you didn't specialize in any facet or anything
like that? Small animals, yes. I tried to take
extra courses and continue the education in
ophthalmology and surgery.
And dermatology, particularly
dermatology.
I was a member of all those associations at one time
to the National Association. Did you begin any
kind of referral practice along the way
somewhere? Yes, we had referrals from
surrounding towns, particularly for surgery.
Oh, okay. So they're coming to you for the surgery
and dermatology? Yes. How about you now? Are you
referring any of your patients to a specialist?
Oh, yes. We refer lots to Dallas. They set up a
referral clinic over there that had a very good
surgeon, a board man, a board radiologist, and a
board dermatologist. Who is it? Reedy was a
dermatologist. Reedy? Okay. He'll be in this
afternoon. Oh, I'll see him tomorrow, rather.
That's right. I'll see Reggie tomorrow. What's
his name? Gosh, he's in here. He was a surgeon. He's
retired now. And the radiologist is still there.
She's taking a partner. She's a ladybird. And they
were very running in a high quality type thing.
They never tried to give shots and do things like
that. Of course, I was minoring in dermatology,
but Reedy was a board man and taught some with the
medical school over there. Because that's the
conversion of the profession. We were very slow at
it and very jealous.
They have not accepted it until recent years. In my
time, it was not done hardly at all. Do you see that
as sort of the coming trend in veterinary
practice? Oh, yeah. Specialization and referral
practices? Quite a lot, yeah. A general
practitioner who basically does the client
ministry and then refers the more critical
problems? Yeah, Herman Dietrich was a surgeon.
Herman Dietrich, in fact, I think I may have met him
at the... He might have sat at the table with me. He
lives in Dallas and Colorado.
D-I-E-T-R-I-C-H.
One
thing we haven't touched on well. Go ahead. You go
ahead. You tell me, because that's better. I don't
want to take you too much longer. Veterans should
enter into their local politics and do public
work, in my opinion, much more.
There is some classical examples that Dr. Parker
from San Antonio, you want to be sure and talk to
him. He was the first veterinarian that was mayor
of a large city and was on their board for many
years. He was on the board of the AHA with me at the
same time and in the AHA hospital. Dr. Abels
locally has been head of his school board and very
active in his local politics. Dr.
Farrell, J.M. Farrell, his two brothers, has been
very active in his school board, president of it in
Arlington.
Very active in local things. There's others, I
can't bring them up right now. Okay, but that's a
good point. That needs to be the other side. Yeah.
Earl Waddell was active in Houston.
There's several more down there that I don't...
I'll kind of watch for that as I run along. What do
you think are the major, let's say problems or
crises or whatever, I'm not sure that's the right
word, far better than the practice? in this
decade, last few decades. When are you really
confronting that? That seems to be a challenge to
the profession. Well, I missed the county agent
deal. I came in at the tail end of that, and I really
don't know enough. You need to get an older man. I
can get that. We've got a lot of them now. We had lots
of good fights on that. Yeah, I know. I've got that.
Rabies vaccines and stuff. Well, for one thing,
when I was a long year, I had rabies clinics out in
the surrounding towns And that area had a lot of
rabies. I had three in my hospital at one time,
rabid animals. That ain't fun. That makes you
nervous. No, I've heard a lot of people talk about
that. But the next one I would say is with the
druggist selling prescription pharmaceuticals
and treating animals, pharmacists treating
animals, you know, a farmer comes in, well, you've
got a milk fever. He'd hand him a bottle of dextrose
and calcium and not knowing where to put it or
anything else, diagnosis. The
next one is our own problem was
policing our own ranks for our veterinarians that
did not follow up on their education, and I
don't like the word, but just about quacking. That
happened here in Fort Worth. I went out with the
examining board a time or
two. The examining board straightened out a lot of
that, pursued those people that weren't up to
quality or that were lowering the standards and
violating laws, really, out of the state of Texas.
Right now, one of the big problems are people
coming into cities and towns with a mobile clinic,
setting up rabies and distempering, anything for
half a day to a day's time. where
there are practitioners available to take care of
the veterinary practice. I'm glad you mentioned
that. They're just making a soar and getting the
fast trades and the profit business, really. Is
that because of the more intense competition in
the business? Yes. And that's just one facet of
that competition. I'm glad you mentioned that.
started and it's all over but it's a real fight in
the United States now these mobile clinics that uh
I'm not talking about the mobile clinic that's in
the end down and everything in the phone book yeah
this is something else guy comes puts out sheets
and has boys delivered to the houses and I'll be at
the
shopping center uh all day all Sunday I can see
where that would really turn them out, too. Oh,
hell yes. And a lot of people are, you know, cutting
prices. And that gets back to the advertising
problem. And lower prices are advertised.
Because still, the profession does not condone
advertising. They don't contribute to the
community. They don't pay any taxes on the
community. They don't contribute anything to the
community. It's purely selfish. How in the world
is it going to be combated? The State Association,
I recommend it to the ones here They set up one right
across the street from him and put up a big sign and
meet his prices. That's discouraging, but it's
been handled a different way. You can check in
Houston on it. Dallas has had some of it. I'll watch
for that. That's a good way to mention it.
What about women in the profession? Do you have any
comments on that? Women? When I graduated, there
wasn't a woman in the class. And I've hired as many
as four in my time, most of them in my hospitals and
branch hospitals. And they have been very
successful. Yeah, that's the kind of way I've got
nothing but praise. Of course, now they
constitute more than half. Right. And the
graduates coming out of A&M now are most of them.
You should see our local, I wish I'd brought it, got
it about yesterday,
people are available for practice and people are
available for substitutions. I should get that
back to you. Because that is one of the big
problems. That's a good sign of the times. OK. In
all due respect, I have kind of muddied the water as
far as... They're part-timers. They're
part-timers. They're real valuable. I used to
employ military part-timers. And I went from then
to graduate students that had to do work, you know,
out with the practitioners. Missouri started
early in... Nearly all the schools have that they
have to go out and work with practitioners
anywhere from a month to six months. And that's
very good because they learn economics. They
learn location, locating practices, how
important that is, where you make your building.
And they learn relationship with people. They
don't get any of that in schools. And it's very
vital. You know, you can make it break. I hired a
veterinarian down here, a valedictorian in
Colorado, and he'd gone broke in Longview, Tyler,
Texas. Don't print it, but he was held up in a clinic
I'd bought. And he made a living, that's all, for
the clinic and himself. And he decided, Dr. Sears
said, He's a very intelligent guy and has a very
intelligent wife. She was head of her sorority at
the University of Texas. And he said, I'm not happy
here. I want to do some transplant work. And I've
already done a little bit moving muscles here to
take care of breaks and stuff. I said, could I do
some college work at TCU and apply to med school? I
said, well, certainly. And in about a year and a
half, he was admitted to Dallas at the university
over there. And when he graduated, he took four of
the six honors that they had. And he's now teaching
in San Antonio Medical School. And he's written
the authoritative book of the Bible, they say. And
I had a neighbor that was in it, an orthopedic for
children. Showed me off the beach. That was his
thing. But I just tell you that everybody is not
suited for a practice. It's better that they learn
that and getting out and trying it in practice
before they enter into it. Or learn it early.
That's something you don't learn in school
either. No, not a bit. And I've kind of picked that
up in a lot of conversations I've had with people.
And that is, in practice, you're treating the
client as much as you're treating the animal. Oh,
you bet. You bet. The psychology of it. And that's
hard to teach your young vets, too. They're
terribly skilled, but they want to listen to the
people and get what they... Sometimes they'll
come in and talk one way, but they really want
something else. Bring in an old dog and say, oh,
yes, do everything you can. Then they ask you about
the price, and you know underneath they want to put
him to sleep, but they won't say it. You just can't
quite come to it. When I was first here, I thought I
was the euthanasia veterinarian because they'd
take it to the regular veterinarian, but they
didn't have a nurse enough to tell him to put him to
sleep. There's one old Puerto Rican veterinarian
here who wouldn't put the dog to sleep if he had
cancer of the throat. He just wouldn't put him to
sleep. I was taught to save him, not put him to
sleep. I agree with him, but anyway, eventually
that caught up. They have a tendency to take it to
another veterinarian when they want to do that.
Yeah, that's interesting.
But I think they're accustomed to the client
relationship. But I want to not leave you an
impression I'm critical of women. No, I don't see
that. But I do see that the nature of the
competition, the nature of the business is
changing because women are in it. And they've
helped us because they're more gentle with dogs.
And a lot of women would rather bring them to a woman
than to a man. And they are just as good in surgery. I
had one here that did three months work with me and
then came to me as a veterinarian.
And I've never had a sharper person that I could
talk over a case. We would enjoy working together
all night. But one didn't think the other would.
And a fellow bought me out. And he didn't jive with
her. And he'd been my partner, too. He was in his
practice at the same time she was there. And I
recommended it to his brother, who had another
partnership practice I'd had. And she's with him
and her right-hand man. And she carried a lot of
practice over there with her. When she left mine, I
never could understand why this didn't work out.
Well, they had another fellow they wanted to bring
in, and primarily couldn't afford two of them. The
other fellow was not her caliber at all. I
interviewed Anelda Bates in San Antonio. I don't
know if you remember her. She's apparently one of
the early practitioners in Texas. came out of
Purdue, I believe. I had an Illinois one, and I
hired her as a substitute lots of times. She was
very good. Worked out of Dallas. I guess we better
go ahead and close then, but if you were going to
write a book on veterinary medicine, what do you
think would be the main thing you would want to
express or explain in that book? I would think that
of our
Dentistry and MDs, DOs,
we have kept pace with them. We have been leaders in
some. And we're not to be,
take a second seat to them in the practice of
medicine in any respect. I really think that then
your medicine has done proud for itself with not
too much help.
And this is the main thing that the public needs to
know, you think? I think so. I'm very active in
Morris Animal Foundation now. And it is a group
that is headquartered in Denver. started by Dr.
Morris, who invented KD, RD, and all these special
diets that veterinarians use. And it is dedicated
to research
in animal diseases that are not covered by the US
government. And that means dog, cat, horse, and
zoo.
I feel that it's a very beneficial thing, and they
do more research through the colleges, through
the veterinary colleges. They fund research.
They fund research than anyone else in the United
States. Cornell is second, and it drops off
terribly up in there. The Texas and AVMA and AHA
have copied it But they don't have anything like
the money spent. Yeah. I gather that's one of the, I
read the Pew report, and I think that's one of them.
Yeah. Give them a plug, because they deserve it.
Yeah. Dr. Morris gave a certain percent of his
profits to this organization. One of my clients
here was president, president of the board of
directors. and very active in setting up a fund,
which they do. They pay for the research off the
income from this fund. It's a stable fund, and the
fund pays enough interest money that they do not
have to enter into the principal. And the state
board, as a member of the state veterinary board,
at one time as an honor for being that. And I enjoyed
that relationship with my clients. The state TVMA
doesn't have money or resources to fund research
projects. Very much. They have a little bit. I know
the foundation is trying to develop in that area.
Well, Fort Worth had its own foundation. Is that
right? We formed it very soon after the Morris
Animal Foundation And we have $60,000
that this man gave us in the bank right now to devote
to research and to... We've spent a lot... For a
local organization, that's very good. Well,
we're the only one, practically in the United
States, that we also set up our own loan fund. If
you'll check at the college down there, we have had
and still maintain a loan fund for veterinary
students. That was part of our...
Is there a sense, you think, in the profession now
that too many veterinarians are coming out into
the practice through... Well, I've been on a
long-range planning committee twice several
years back, and now I'm on it now. And that's a
continual problem. I would... I think so. You can
hire veterinarians pretty cheap now compared
to... four or five years ago, and yet the good ones
are bringing good salary. I have two daughters in
dietetics, and they don't fall into a
veterinarian's price range, a graduating one,
and a graduating dietitian, and it's about the
same amount of school work. Theirs has come up
fast, too. I had one other thing I wanted to mention
to you. I alluded to it back there with Glenn Savage
and King. I had to fire King's organization
because Dr. Cloud, my treasurer,
thought we were getting the shaft as far as
expenses. He came in and doubled the dues the first
month he was in. He got it passed through. And then
he wanted to double them again in two years' time
that every member paid. And we found out, well, you
forced an audit, Dr. Cloud and I. on to him, and I
have letters and all kinds of things through the
years brought along. And he fought it all the way.
What he would do is put out printing, charge us one
price, and pay them about half. And he'd do it
different with his charges, his work that he did,
slides work, and stuff like that, much up from what
Well, anyway, at the same time, he had us as his
executive secretary. He's the executive
secretary of the Texas Cattle Racers Association
and Texas Truckers Association and several more.
Both of those sued him after we fired him and won
their court trials. This didn't get much
publicity. And I got some criticism from it.
Sounded like you did the right thing without any
reservation. Yeah. And I have lots of letters and
proof and so forth. Yeah, I'm sure that was a tough
time for you to do. He wrote me a letter that in
effect said that I was going to apologize to him,
accept his audit, and rehire him, or he's going to
send it to every member of the state association
And he called me a SOB. And he gave me a time from
Thursday till Sunday to give him a signed copy of a
different letter that he wanted me to send. And I
got the letter and came in, got the old business,
came home for lunch. Well, I said, what in the world
happened to you? He said, you look funny. I said,
well, read this letter. And she said, does he mean
that? Said he's going to send it to every member.
I've got a copy here. To the association. If I
didn't notify him by Saturday noon. And she says,
what are you going to do? And I said, I'm going to
Abilene. And she said, what the hell are you going
to Abilene for? I said, that won't solve this
problem. I said, well, he can't call me. And I said,
I'm going to call his bluff. I said, if he sends that
out, I'm going to sue him. And he knows all of a
sudden. And he said, that's Mark. Well, I did. And
he didn't, nothing came of it. But he accepted it
with ill grace and continually wrote my board and
wrote the board of directors and the officers
without sending me copies and stuff. But we got rid
of him. And about five years, he went crazy and
died. early. He had a mental problem. He was trying
to go too far. That's hard. That's hard on you, too.
I won't do anything without... Some of us remember
it, but the people following me and Julef down
at... Yeah, I've talked to him. He was the one that
hired him. And he was... Well, Julef realizes what
it got into me. I think we're through. We've got
company coming.